Sample Cucumber / Selenium / Java UI Test Framework
====================================================

This framework is a work in progress.

# Overview

* This framework supports verification of the SUT by allowing for specification, in Gherkin, of quality controls.
* It is, therefore, primarily aimed at end-to-end verification of a system that provides a web-based front end, but it
  can allow the specifications of an API to be similarly expressed within same suite of feature files.
* Configuration allows a _default browser_ to be defined which will be started afresh for each scenario.

> ToDo: Only support Chrome right now. Need to copy in the FFx and other kinds.

* The web driver is provided by a plugin (rather than the traditional method of downloaded .exe files somewhere on the
  local host) that takes care of getting the most recent driver. This allows the suite to be operated in the likes of a
  GitHub Action.
* At the end of each failing scenario, a screengrab is made.

> ToDo: This automated grabbing also occurs when an API-based assertion fails. This is clearly a waste, but is it worth the code?

* Configuration also allows for a _default resource_ so that:
    * The default location does not have to be repeated
    * It is possible to quickly switch the target of the suite (e.g. from dev., to stage, to live).

> ToDo: The API steps do not take notice of this default. They will probably need their own default host, at least.

* A pretty HTML report is generated by the Runner(s), and these can be invoked by mvn, so the suite can readily be used
  in a CI/CD system to form a quality gateway.

# Installation

* Create a new maven project
* Go to GitHub
* Pull the contents of the repo and just place it at the root of the project.
* Start up your IDE
  ** Your IDE will want to retrieve dependencies.
* There are framework-level smoke and proof-of tests that you can use directly to see if all is well

# Use

## Configuration

* Framework properties (src/test/config/testFramework.properties) e.g.
    * Browser,
    * Headless or not,
    * Wait times, and so on ...
* SUT properties (src/test/config/systemUnderTest.properties)  e.g.
    * URL for SUT
* HTML reporting properties (cucumber-reporting.properties) e.g.
    * The name and version for use in the report
    * To change the location of the reports (currently target/cucumber-html-reports), edit the plugin's line in the
      runner (src/test/java/runners)
* The pom.xml file controls the selection of the Runner by using the includes line of the surefire plugin's details.

## Extending the framework to test your SUT

* src/test/java/objects/frame/Context.java
    * can provide you with handles on the default Actor (which created the driver) and similar such data.
    * You could use this as a place to store data across scenarios and steps, if that was you fancy.
* You can see where to put your ...
    * feature files (src/test/features/sut)
    * step definitions (src/test/java/steps/sut)
    * page objects (src/test/java/objects/sut)
* You can also see examples of test steps and test objects that you can enhance / refocus for your own SUT
* Generally speaking, you will want to extend the 'universal web page'
  (src/test/java/objects/frame/UniversalWebPage.java) to provide a 'generic' / common page object for your SUT (for
  example see src/test/java/objects/sut/CommonSutPage.java)
* Then you probably want to extend your own common page object for specific pages
